# Laravel Eloquent Imagery

## Description

`ziffdavis/laravel-eloquent-imagery` takes a unique approach to handling
images. Instead of treating images as model relations, they are treated
as attributes of a model. To this end, image information is stored
in a tables column (a model's attribute) at a given name. Additionally,
this library handles image modifications (resizing, triming,
backgrounds) when serving the image instead of at upload time. Images
are stored in any of the configured kinds of file storage that Laravel
supports.

Features:
- images are tracked in same table's column
- setup is handled by adding a trait and a method per image type
- modifications can be made by manipuliating the image's url
- placeholder generation is supported
- fallback to a placeholdler (mainily for dev purposes) is supported
  when the image is not on the disk 

### Other Good Libraries

If this solution to the image problem does not appeal to you, 
[Spatie's MediaLibrary](https://github.com/spatie/laravel-medialibrary)
is an excellent library that both treats images as
Models as a Relation, and also has a concept of "conversions" that can
be applied at upload time.

## Installation

First, install the package:

    $ composer require ziffdavis/laravel-eloquent-imagery
    
In Laravel 5.5+. this library will self-register. Next, you should
publish the vendor (config) files:

    $ artisan vendor:publish --provider=ZiffDavis\Laravel\EloquentImagery\EloquentImageryProvider

It is now ready to use.

## Usage

In the simplest use case for a single image attached to a model, first
create a `json` column in a migration to handle this image:

```php
// in a table migration
$table->json('image')->nullable();
```

Next, in the model, add in the HasEloquentImagery trait and a method
named *the same as the column* like:

```php
use ZiffDavis\Laravel\EloquentImagery\Eloquent\HasEloquentImagery;

class Post extends Model
{
    use HasEloquentImagery;

    // ...

    public function image()
    {
        return $this->eloquentImagery();
    }
}
```

The above makes the following assumptions that can be demonstrated by
the following code with comments:

```php
// in class Post
public function image()
{
    return $this->eloquentImagery(
        'posts/{id}/image.{extension}', // $path: default is generated, "image" in this case is from attribute below
        'image', // $attribute: default will use the name of the method
        'filesystem' // $filesystem: default from config('eloquent_imagery.filesystem', config('filesystems.default'));
    );
}
```

## Detailed Configuration

The following table describes the available configuration options:


#### `eloquent_imagery.filesystem` default value `env('IMAGERY_FILESYSTEM', 'public')`

This is the filesystem images will be stored on at the image's path.

#### `eloquent_imagery.render.enable` default value `true`

Whether or not to enable the render *route* and modification functionality.

#### `eloquent_imagery.render.path` default value `/imagery`

The path prefix the route will live at and serve images from.

#### `eloquent_imagery.render.placeholder.enable` default value `env('IMAGERY_RENDER_PLACEHOLDER_ENABLE', false)`

Highly useful for dev purposes, consider enabling in local.

#### `eloquent_imagery.render.placeholder.filename` default value `_placeholder_`

This identifies when a placeholder image is being requested.

#### `eloquent_imagery.render.placeholder.use_for_missing_files` default value `env('IMAGERY_RENDER_PLACEHOLDER_USE_FOR_MISSING_FILES', false)`

If an image is requested that is not on the filesystem, enabling this
will serve a placeholder instead (useful for dev).

#### `eloquent_imagery.render.caching.enable` default value `env('IMAGERY_RENDER_CACHING_ENABLE', true)`

Whether or not the controller should use full request caching

#### `eloquent_imagery.render.caching.driver` default value `env('IMAGERY_RENDER_CACHING_DRIVER', 'disk')`

Cache to the disk.

#### `eloquent_imagery.render.caching.ttl` default value `60`

How long the ttl for the cache is.

#### `eloquent_imagery.render.browser_cache_max_age` default value `31536000` 

How long the browser should cache the image generated by this route for.

#### `eloquent_imagery.force_unmodified_image_rendering` default value `env('IMAGERY_FORCE_UNMODIFIED_IMAGE_RENDERING', false)`

This will allow for the dynamic (controller) route or static route (link to storage, for example) to be seletively used based on if modifiers are present in the image request


## TODO

- image collections support
- refactor the image "modifiers" to be extensible and more cohesive

